Here we go.
So these are like the three things that
I kind of think, are what we looking
are the solution to our problem,
we need to be able to have
our dot files available.
They need to be updatable and
they need to be OS.
You should be able to have
some OS compatibility, right?
So if you're on Mac,
you should be able to switch to like
a Mac flavored dot files, right?
If you're on Ubuntu, you should be able
to switch to, I wanna have these for
my Ubuntu instance.
If there are some that are shared,
you should be able to have
the shared ones in common.
And so these are kinda the big three,
right?
I wanna be able to configure my programs.
I wanna be able to commit and
track my changes.
And I wanted to be OS independent.
So those are my big three to be
able to solve the dotfile problem.
And so there's probably a few of you out
there that don't know what dotfiles are,
I don't know the level of
proficiency out there.
I did say for
this course that some knowledge
of the command line is important.
And so I will go over really, really,
really briefly what dotfiles are.
So Here's an example of a dotfile.
So I'm gonna grab this right here,
copy it, and I'm gonna go back here,
I'm gonna re-launch docker.
Now I have Neovim pre-installed in this
docker image, and that's pretty much it.
So when I do nvim, let's actually let's
just go to our root and let's go and
nvim test file..
Do js, or there we go, when I go in here
and I go function foo and I do this,
notice that A, the color's awful.
Look at the indenting, I think it's a tab.
In order to do this, you have to tab.
Look at this, it's huge.
It's eight spaces.
It's not the way I want them to be.
So how can I fix this?
Well, I can go to my root directory and
I can add a folder called dot config.
And then of course, in doc config,
I can go to Neovim,
and of course in here I can go and
knit dot vim, and then in here I can paste
in this and this will effectively say hey,
tabs there four characters long.
When I shift it should
be four characters long.
If there is a tab,
let's make sure it's spaces.
And hey, if you're gonna be doing things
I will try to indent as smart as I
can for you.
Awesome.
I'm gonna quit him re-launch it.
Now you'll notice that tab that
was eight characters long,
is now four characters long.
I have configured this program, right?
There we go.
You can still see it's a tab.
When I kill that tab and press tab,
now you'll notice that it's spaces
because I told it to expand tab in
vim means convert tab to spaces.
There we go.
I was able to customize then the way I
love it, right?
And so that is a dotfile.
It is simply a configuration
set of instructions for
some program to read and run.
Now, where are they stored is
kind of in variable locations.
Newer versions of tmux take advantage
of this dot config styled storing.
Older versions just have it
right in your home directory.
And so It just depends on how you use
it in a lot of programs even NPM has,
you can have NPM or
C's that are in your home directory.
And that are in your
actual individual repose.
And so you can use both of those.
And so dotfiles they're all over
the place, we can figure so
many different things.
And so,
let's talk about how we're using that.
So hopefully now everybody
kind of understands yeah,
I've used a dotfile before.
In my JavaScript projects we have,
our ES lint RC,
which really defines how ES lint
should operate in that environment.
So hopefully that's familiar enough.
But the problem of course,
is when you are trying to do this for
your personal system,
there's a lot of crappy ways people do it.
Before I kinda of get into what is
available, you know what I used to do?
I used to have a really awesome
script that mostly worked.
But every time I added something new I
need to alter my script and make sure that
my everything works and then I was
like kinda symlinking most the time,
but cuz I changed how I like to do things
it'll then copy other times, right?
Just legacy throughout the whole thing.
It was awful.
So I finally was like,
all right, I have to stop this.
Every time I get a new system or
every time I make a change to my system,
I experience, wouldn't call real pain but
definitely some emotional trauma there,
right?
I was just like,
why isn't anything working and
20 minutes later it's
because my script sucks.
All right, so there is three popular
solutions I've looked at two of them.
I haven't looked at one of them,
but I can keep hearing about it.
So I'm just gonna put it in there for
curiosity sake,
and the three ones are Yatom as I like to
call it or get another dotfile manager.
There's gonna install and
then there's dotbot.